Within the early Arab food tradition, what did the Arabs of the 7th century eat in the early days of Islam?

Well, there is no one answer as the diverse geography of the Arabian region allowed for different kinds of cooking lifestyles.

There were many tribes of Arabs, nomads and city dwellers, Arabs of the north and of the south, Arabs of the south, Arabs of Gulf and the Red Sea, and those scattered throughout the Arabian Peninsula. Each had their own food traditions. Their way of life is known to us through accounts of the life of the prophet Muhammad, born at Mecca in Hijaz.  Hijaz extends hundreds of miles along the coast of the Red Sea..
It consists of high desert plateaus where rainfall is rare and unpredictable; however it is not all barren for city of Medina cultivated date palms and vineyards and Asir to the south, the best-irrigated region, produces wheat, apricots, peaches, bananas, grapes, pomegranate, and almonds, all part of early Arab food ...

Sedentary farmers in villages and oasis grew barley and vegetables (tomato, melon, squash, beans, and root vegetables) in small garden plots and tended their date groves, adding to the diversity of Arab food. Semi-nomadic Arabs provide meant and cheese from their flock of sheep and goats. Nomadic Bedouin herders provided camel meat. Fresh fish was stable on the coasts. In addition, tea, spices and rice were imported in bulk  by camel caravans or by sea to ports, thus adding to the richness of early Arab food traditions.

Because of the mass expanses of the desert, the nomadic Bedouin way of life was most pervasive, but simple and plain. The Arabs remained faithful to their way of life based on principle and necessity, but also out of love of independence. These values are reflected in the simple Arab food habits of the time... 

However, they also knew about the influences of neighbouring civilizations and traveled the length and breadth of the peninsula disseminating information.  Although strongly clinging to their culture, the Arabs did adopt recipes from Sasanid courts (in Persia). This included pastries like faludhaj, a cake prepared with starch and honey...

Mecca served as the spiritual center of the pre-Islamic Arabs. Mecca was also the center of the caravan trade for merchants coming from the south (Yemen) and bound for Syria and Egypt. The spices and incense would come from the far ends to sea ports of Yemen from where they would head north crossing Mecca. Its central place in this trade meant that Meccans must have also adopted the culinary spices in their diets. This meant that early Arab food included influences from many other surrounding regions.