Aseeda:  Aseeda is eaten communal in one bowl, using the fingers to pull off bits of dough and dipping it into the fat and sugar, working them into the paste with the fingers before eating in a mouthful.

ingredients:
1 cup barley flour (alternatively wholewheat or white flour)
2 cups boiling water
1/4 tsp salt
1 tbsp olive oil
Boil water with oil and salt in a medium-large pan.
Reserve half of the water – 1 cup.

instructions:

1)Sift the flour into the water remaining in the pan on low heat and stir with a wooden spoon until smooth (you can also do this on the counter if you find it difficult to work on the stovetop). This is the tricky part of the dish, as lumps tend to form when the flour is added to the water. It will take a few tries before you make your first truly smooth dough. An alternative I use is to boil the water in an electric kettle or in a separate pan. Having sifted the flour into the cooking pan I gradually add one cup of water to the flour while vigorously stirring (reversing the process). I find that this prevents the formation of lumps. This process is even more difficult using white wheat flour, as it has I higher gluten content and tends to lump more easily.

2)Add the remaining water, a little at a time, and use the wooden spoon to lift the dough allowing the water to flow beneath it and form a buffer from the heat.

3)Cover with a lid and simmer uncovered for 15-20 minutes until the water is completely absorbed. It’s important not to skip this part as this cooks the flour and prevents bloating after eating this wholegrain flour.
Once the water has evaporated stir with the spoon over low heat until the paste comes together to form one lump.

4)Grease a serving bowl with oil. Turn the dough into the bowl and quickly shape it, with greased hands, into a hemisphere, taking care is it will be hot.
Make a small well in the top and pour on the topping of your choice (date syrup and olive oil or honey and butter).
Serve hot.

calories:243
