	
Molokhia (Egyptian-style):This popular Egyptian soup made with minced Jute leaves is nutritious and delicious over rice and chicken

Ingredients

1/2 large chicken or 1 small chicken (about 750 grams)
1 medium onion quartered
12  green cardamom pods
1  cinnamon stick
1  bay leaf
1 teaspoon salt
5 cups water
2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil
6 medium cloves garlic
1 tablespoon coriander seeds - ground
1/2 teaspoon salt
500 grams fresh molokhia
2 cups short-grain Egyptian rice
2 tablespoons ghee (clarified butter)

Instructions:

1)Add the chicken, onions, cardamom, cinnamon, bay leaf salt and water to a stock pot that's just large enough to hold the chicken. The chicken should be completely submerged. Cover and bring to a boil, then remove the lid and skim off any scum that accumulates on the surface. Keep skimming until there's no more foam coming up. Turn the heat down to a simmer, and cook the chicken for 20 minutes.

2)To make the Taqliya, combine the garlic, coriander and olive oil and salt and mash together into a paste.

3)Prepare the molokhia, by removing the leaves from the stems, and then washing thoroughly to remove the grit that accumulates on the leaves. Use a mezzaluna or chef's knife to mince the leaves. You can also put the leaves in a food processor and pulse.

4)When the chicken is done, transfer it to a bowl using tongs and cover the chicken with plastic wrap to keep it from drying out.

5)Thoroughly wash the rice and cook it according to the direction on the package, but substitute the chicken stock for the water.

6)When the rice 15 minutes away from being done, preheat the oven to 230 C (450 degrees F) spread about 1/3 of the Taqliya on the chicken skin, sprinkle with salt, and then place the chicken on a roasting pan. Bake the chicken for 15 minutes, or until the skin is golden brown.

7)Add half the remaining Taqliya to a pot. Fry the mixture until fragrant and browned. Add the 1 1/2 cups of reserved chicken stock along with the minced molokhia. Gently simmer, stirring occasionally until the molokhia is cooked (about 10-15 minutes). If you like your molokhia thinner, add more chicken stock. Season to taste with salt and pepper.

8)Add the remaining Taqliya to a small frying pan along with 2 tablespoons of ghee. Fry until the garlic has browned.

9)Add the lemon juice to the molokhia and stir it in.

10)To serve, put the rice in a large platter. Section the chicken into pieces and place them on top of the rice. Serve the Molokhia in a separate bowl to pour on the rice and chicken.

calories:290



